when do we talk about philosophy when do
we talk about politics I am NOT an
academic I want to talk about these
things when they matter and when you
talk about the questions when they
really matter people get upset people
get offended and people also get
energized and motivated to make a
difference to make a positive difference
sometimes I think when somebody like Ted
car makes a statement such as the
meaning of life is joy the reason why
you're alive all of your goals should
just be the pursuit of your own personal
happiness short term happiness joy he's
making a philosophical statement he's
making a philosophic claim that's worth
debating it's worth debating in and of
itself it would be worth debating if
nobody watched Ted Cara's YouTube
channel if nobody heard of Ted car
within veganism as a movement it's even
more worth debating because it's a
philosophical question that's linked to
a bunch of political problems within
veganism as we know it today veganism as
it takes its baby steps towards being a
real political movement give you another
example ladies and gentlemen take our
the image of being that person who
deserves that
and we all get what we deserve and we
deserve whatever we're managing for
ourselves whether that's good bad or
indifferent neutral whatever we all get
what we deserve I deserve to have this
graffiti in the back over here the
background I deserve this backdrop right
now I deserve the camera I'm holding I
deserve this black t-shirt of mine I
deserve the shoes I'm wearing reserve
the jeans of mine I deserve to be in
Chiangmai right now in the city
I deserve that man you deserve to be
watching this video right now you do
because you are we get what we deserve
now many people have said to me that Ted
Carr is merely offering a poorly
reasoned mishmash of quotations from
self-help books that he may or may not
have even read himself that the whole
line of his reasoning is so far beneath
contempt that I shouldn't be discussing
it or debating it I don't know I
actually think that I mean for one thing
I do think that what a lot of take are
is saying is original from his own
perspective he may have never read those
books or may have I think he's being
sincere and in the same sense that
anyone can reinvent the wheel I think
that a lot of people have the same
thoughts I have the same questions as
Ted Carr and evidently a lot of people
do come to same conclusions whether or
not that's because they're actually
reading the same books or just that they
have the same interests they have the
same fantasies they have the same dreams
and they come up with similar sets of
reasons to justify that outlook on life
I don't know but when someone liked a
car makes a statement he just did that
everyone gets what they deserve that
whatever you got in life it is what you
deserve that the world the universe God
to some cosmic force beyond our
imagining he is claiming provides each
and every one of us with only what we
deserve a lot of Christians the United
States used to say things like God never
gives you more than you can
more than you can bear this kind of
thing but this is a step beyond this is
saying whatever your current situation
is whatever your future situation is
you're getting what you deserve as
shocking to me it's immoral from my
perspective it's offensive I can even
say but it's also worth debating and
it's worth debating now because people
believe it and people are influenced by
it and people care about and people
embrace it and you know you can sit in a
university classroom and discuss
philosophy with people who don't really
disagree with you or people who are only
disagreeing with you because they're
gonna receive a grade like it's a graded
assignment but I think for those of us
who have some background in philosophy
and politics to take the time of our day
to really address these misconceptions
and their implications I think it still
is worthwhile I think it's still is
important and I know that my taking the
time to deal with these sorts of things
and I know that it does actually impact
people's lives because I get emails back
from people explain to me exactly how
it's impacted their lives we can jump to
the most extreme example imaginable
because this is the internet if you
really believe that everybody gets what
they deserve
without exception then you would have to
believe that in the Holocaust in World
War two in the atrocities carried out by
the Nazis that the people who were put
into death camps got what they deserved
Ted car that is an absolutely
ineluctable implication of your
philosophy but you can turn it around
the main implication of your philosophy
is that everyone who was simply born
rich deserves what they were born into
and I think that is what's on your mind
Ted I think that's what's weighing down
your soul I think that justifications
for inequality and wealth and privilege
is what is on your mind when you say
when Ted Carr says that he deserves to
be in
and to me the depth of this
misconception the depth of this delusion
is proven by the fact that he really
sincerely thinks that in saying this
he's saying something that's gonna
motivate you positively to work harder
to make a better future for yourself
I don't know Ted what about someone who
has the exact opposite philosophy Ron
what about someone who gets the tile and
who moves to Chiangmai and feels that
they don't deserve this
that they have to do something
meaningful in order to deserve it
don't you think that person would be
more highly motivated to make a positive
difference in the world what about
somebody who goes to Chiangmai and just
a simple example it just feels hey if I
want to be part of the society if I want
to be positively engaged with what's
going on in northern Thailand if I want
to live here I've got to learn to speak
the language I've got to put in hundreds
of hard hours sitting down with a book
and a pen and paper teach you myself the
Thai language if I want to feel that I
belong if I want to feel that I deserve
to be part of the city what about
someone let's say there's no language
barrier what if you move to New York
City and you want to feel like you
deserve to live in New York City and
you're a little way of doing that
because you feel like you don't deserve
it is to go to City Hall and pay
attention what's going on in politics
and get a little bit involved with I
don't know let's say the movement to try
to raise the minimum wage any any
political or social would a move it okay
so this is New York City is the example
River pollution pollution in the river
water huge issue for New York City
what if someone said to you you know
what when I moved to Chiangmai or when I
moved to New York City I didn't feel
that I deserved it I didn't feel that an
airplane ticket entitled me to be a part
of the society I didn't feel that my
opinion mattered in this society just
because I bought an airplane ticket and
showed up here as a tourist I needed to
feel like I was making a positive
contribution by learning the language by
going to City Hall by doing research by
caring by trying to make this little
part of the world a better place in some
way that's what I felt I needed to do
and then
after I'd done that maybe after I'd done
that for five years maybe after only six
months I felt better I felt that when I
had an opinion about local politics I
deserve to be listened to even though I
was a newcomer even though it was a new
immigrant or a tourist or an expatriate
because I've learned the language I'd
gone to City Hall I'd done some charity
work I've been concerned about the
environment had been concerned about the
middle age I'd been concerned about the
minimum wage part of me
something anything some shred of human
moral fiber decency duty obligation
public service this concept from Ted
appears in the midst of it longer and
more complex philosophical argument that
again it is genuinely a philosophical
argument it's just no argument happen to
disagree with I would not say take car
doesn't have a philosophy he has a
philosophy that I think is a hundred and
eighty degrees wrong he starts off by
telling us that 2017 should be the year
in which we improve our self-image but
what he sets out I think is actually a
plan to pursue image dysphoria lying to
yourself about yourself image the fact
that you bought an airplane ticket to
New York doesn't mean that you're in New
Yorker right the fact that you got money
doesn't mean that you deserve money so
on down the line the fact that you've
got anything good or bad doesn't mean
that you deserve it and we take our I
just think he's never studied any
example of political for any example
from the political history of the world
so there's so many situations in which
terrible things happen to good people
terrible things happen to people they
didn't deserve but let's leave that
aside it can't be the main argument of
this video but yes absurdly Ted Carr
would claim that people who were put
into concentration camps deserve to be
there simply because they were there
which is a sickening and immoral ethical
philosophy that does not take a genius
to point out
Ted car begins this little essay by
telling us the 2017 should be the year
in which we improve our self-image he
talks about setting goals but Ted how
can it be that you're so deep into this
self-deception that you don't see that
by telling people they already deserve
everything they've got and they've all
right they already deserve everything
they will have in the future this is a
disincentive for people to actually plan
and actually work towards goals it's
surreal to me it's a hundred and eighty
degrees wrong but Ted's idea of setting
goals does not involve planning does not
involve hard work to deserve those
outcomes his idea of setting goals is to
encourage you to pretend that you've
already achieved those goals just say to
me is actually psychologically unhealthy
it actually resembles image dysphoria
right if you plan to become a medical
doctor why would you tell yourself now
at the planning stage that you already
are a medical doctor if you plan to
learn to speak the Chinese language or
the Thai language or even English why
would you pretend that you already can
speak that language even if it's a
difference of degree let's say your goal
for 2017 was to raise your ability to
your level of ability in speaking
English from speaking it in a very
uncertain stuttering way with a thick
accent maybe you're a new immigrant and
you speak English but with a very bad
accident you want to raise it so you can
speak fluently convincingly if you
behaved as if you already couldn't do
that before you did all the hard work
[Music]
what would you be arrogant deluded
privileged entitled let's stick to that
with arrogance deluded privilege and
title that's what you would be and you
would be laughable
you'd be the you be speaking as
incredibly poorly and behaving as if you
were entitled to some other reaction
same would be true of myself learning
I have to remain humble and learning
languages is an extremely humbling
experience and I've been humbled again
and again by studying so many different
languages but he doesn't he doesn't
think of these these kinds of examples
move on to some of the other examples
and again this is part of the same
ideological package as this fundamental
delusion you deserve whatever you've got
quote we all get what we deserve close
quote
Ted Carr start pretending to be a
success right now he tells us start
pretending to be a successful athlete
start describing yourself as if you're
already a successful businessman start
thinking of yourself as already thin if
you're fat as already does it take so
much imagination and human sympathy to
realize how buffoonish how ridiculous
some would be if they if they pay that
way even with the examples he selected
let alone the examples of learning a
language do you not see how invidious it
is how much it would create terrible
conflict in hatred if somebody shows up
in the company of other painters artists
people who paint pictures people who
devoted years of their lives to building
up the skill to paint to paint a canvas
and they behave as if they're already a
highly accomplished highly trained
highly disciplined highly practiced
painter
why would you think of yourself that way
you would seem deluded entitled arrogant
and you'd be offensive to the people
around you who had the humility who had
the self-discipline who had the
education of the training or the long
hours whether it's the long hours
sitting alone studying a language or the
long hours sitting and practicing of the
pendant he gives the example though of
how long before he was an accomplished
athlete he claims he's an accomplished
athlete in the triathlon he would think
of himself and talk about himself as
already being a an athlete already being
a try
athol on athlete I don't know how that
would go over with other people Ted who
made the sacrifices to really be
athletes when you have made those
sacrifices here but I can tell you in
the art world you would be hated hated
by other painters who put in the decades
of hard work when you didn't in the
language world okay look um very very
small number of white men have learned
to speak a language like Cree or a Jib
way Ted cars Canadian you should care
about legit very larger number of white
men white men and women have learned
Inuit the Inuit language inductively
extremely hard work anyone can google
this you know what go to Google and just
Google Cree months of the year look at
the names of December January February
March there's a goal for you Ted car do
you think you could just learn the names
of the months of the year in one native
language one native Canadian language
like Cree
it's incredibly hard work and you have
to remember the vowels correctly the
spelling correctly and practice saying
them the pronunciation who I've met a
couple of those guys I've met a couple
of the white men who put in the
incredibly hard work to learn native
Canadian languages whether Cree or a Jib
way or otherwise okay you know years of
struggle and suffering and it's not an
exaggeration it's it's hard it's
horrible and when they talk to me so
then I'd only been when I met them let's
say I've been studying Cree for three
months or six months or nine months I
think I was involved with that for less
than a year and a half not much less but
you know I was at First Nations
University studying those languages I
never once lied to them I never once
deceived them about my level of
accomplishment or even my level of
commitment or my level of ability but
you know what they could relate to I
could say to them
I know what it's like to sit under a
mosquito net in Southeast Asia and to
study a language for hundreds of hours
alone with no teacher and no textbook
and no school I know that hard work has
have done it for other languages so I
know I can come here and do it for your
language and I want to and I care and
here's my passion here are my
motivations here is how I'm gonna do it
and of course I mean that's a mix of
confidence and humility and of course
the response I got was tremendously
positive and you know what let's let's
keep it all the way real Ted I met a lot
of people who were ethnically Cree
ethnically a ghibli sometimes other
other First Nations groups let's stick
with those two I met a lot of people
courage when they had your attitude Ted
they had the attitude that they already
spoke those languages that they already
were highly accomplished when they never
put in that work and one of the reasons
that could get away with that was that
most of the time they were in a context
where they could pretend they knew the
language and nobody could question them
but then when they came to my university
it would pretty soon be revealed that
maybe they knew five or six words that
they had heard from their grandfather or
the grandmother and that was it they
couldn't say a single sentence in the
language they had never put in the work
they had never sat down with a list of
the names of the 12 months and learned
the 12 months they couldn't do math in
the language they couldn't ask how much
does this cost
they couldn't say here's ten dollars
give me five dollars back they couldn't
do anything with the language they did
not allege they never studied the
language but a lot of them Ted I met
many people like that Ted who have your
attitude your think positive attitude
and you know what it comes off as
arrogant and deluded and insulting to
the people who understand what the work
is and the people who really do the work
and the people who really care and in
that case you're talking about a
language that's going extinct
and I can say setting aside you know
languages as the example this something
similar in humanitarian work when I was
involved in humanitarian work
you can spend months and months and
months trying to find a project and then
the actual project lasts for six weeks
you spend a lot of time looking for
opportunities to do something positive
in humanitarian work and then you get a
very brief opportunities in positive and
Ted anything like if you know you're
living in Thailand if you get off your
ass and actually get concerned about the
refugees who right now are crossing the
border from northern Myanmar to northern
Thailand if you get interested in the
civil war that's happening outside your
window and the refugee camps if you get
involved in humanitarian cause you'd
better bring that kind of pragmatic
humble down-to-earth attitude and not
pretend that you are something you
aren't not pretend that you've
accomplished on the you haven't
accomplished and not pretend that you
deserve something you do not deserve
take our this is one part of your
philosophy as you say people should
behave as if they've already
accomplished things they haven't
accomplished and they should behave as
if they deserve things they do not
deserve both the things they actually
have and the things that don't have yet
that is a formula for entitlement
privilege arrogance and it's invidious
it will make other people hate you
because other people who have actually
done that work who have actually become
a painter who've actually learned to
speak a language or actually invented
whatever these applets people who are
actually athletes people who know what
it's like to wake up at 5:30 in the
morning because of their coach or
because of the team stuff you can't
relate to because you're not an athletes
head car you're a fraud you're not even
an athlete
and this this whole problem I think is
invisibly and ineluctably
connected to Ted's broader philosophy
that the meaning of life is joy the
meaning of life is just short-term
self-indulgence and personal happiness
and it's only from that perspective that
anyone could strive that it is only from
that perspective that anyone could
subscribe to a philosophy that is so
odious that is so destructive and
self-destructive so obviously immoral as
to suggest that in a world full of so
many terrible tragedies whatever happens
to you good or bad is what you deserve